content/program/workshops/hsdip.md, before:

---
title: "HSDIP"
date: 2024-01-31
draft: true
---

# Heuristics and Search for Domain-independent Planning (HSDIP 2024)

ICAPS'24 Workshop \
Banff, Canada \
June 2-3, 2024

## Aim and Scope of the Workshop

Heuristics and search algorithms are the two key components of heuristic search, one of the main approaches to many variations of domain-independent planning, including classical planning, temporal planning, planning under uncertainty and adversarial planning. This workshop seeks to understand the underlying principles of current heuristics and search methods, their limitations, ways for overcoming those limitations, as well as the synergy between heuristics and search.

The HSDIP workshop has always been welcoming of multidisciplinary work, for example, drawing inspiration from operations research (like row and column generation algorithms), convex optimization (like gradient optimization for hybrid planning), constraint programming, or satisfiability.

The workshop is meant to be an open and inclusive forum, and we encourage papers that report on work in progress or that do not fit the mold of a typical conference paper. Non-trivial negative results are welcome to the workshop, but we expect the authors to argue for the significance of the presented results.

## Topics of Interest

Examples of typical topics for submissions to this workshop are:
- automatic derivation of heuristic estimators for domain-independent planning
- formal results showing equivalence or dominance between heuristics
- novel heuristic methods dealing with planning with numeric variables and effects, partial observability and non-deterministic action effects
- heuristic estimators for domain-independent planning via procedures or  suitably defined encodings of declarative descriptions of planning tasks into Satisfiability or Optimisation
- novel search techniques for domain-independent planning that explicitly aim at exploiting effectively the properties of existing heuristics
- empirical observations of synergies between heuristics and search in domain-independent planning
- challenging domains for existing combinations of heuristics and search algorithms
- applications of machine learning in heuristic search, e.g., learning heuristics, adaptive search strategies, or heuristic selection
- interesting algorithmic optimizations for the calculation of a  heuristic or the execution of a search

## Important Dates

**Submission deadline:**  
28 March 2024 (UTC-12 timezone)

**Open discussion:**  
15-21 April 2024

**Notification:**  
April 26 2024

**Workshop:**  
June 2-3 2024

## Submission Details

Please format submissions in AAAI style (see instructions in the Author Kit at https://www.aaai.org/Publications/Templates/AuthorKit24.zip) and keep them to  at most 9 pages including references. Authors considering submitting to the  workshop papers rejected from the main conference, please ensure you do your  utmost to address the comments given by ICAPS reviewers. Please do not submit papers that are already accepted for the main conference to the workshop.

Submissions will be made through OpenReview:

https://openreview.net/group?id=icaps-conference.org/ICAPS/2024/Workshop/HSDIP

The following conditions apply:

- Submissions will be double blind in general and single blind to the area chair.
- The submitted papers, reviews and discussion between authors and reviewers will be public, and all anonymous.
- Discussions between reviewers and organizers will be private.

Every submission will be reviewed by a member of the organizing committee, and/or external reviewers selected by the organizing committee, according to the usual criteria such as relevance to the workshop, significance of the contribution, and technical quality. There will be a brief discussion phase where author and reviewers can interactively engage and discuss the submission and the reviews.

At least one author of each accepted paper must attend the workshop in order to present the paper.

### Policy on Previously Published Materials

Submissions sent to other conferences are allowed. It is the responsibility of the authors to ensure that those venues allow for papers submitted to be already published in "informal" ways (e.g. on proceedings or websites without associated ISSN/ISBN). In particular, we welcome submissions sent to the IJCAI conference.

## Workshop Committee

### Organizing Committee

**Imène Ait Abderrahim**, Khemis Miliana University, Algeria  
**Clemens Büchner**, University of Basel, Switzerland  
**Roy Fox**, University of California, Irvine, USA  
**Daniel Gnad**, Linköping University, Sweden  
**Sofia Lemons**, 2U, Maryland, USA

Contact: <hsdip@googlegroups.com>

Commit message:

rephrase submission instructions to account for two-track submission system

content/program/workshops/hsdip.md, after:

---
title: "HSDIP"
date: 2024-01-31
draft: true
---

# Heuristics and Search for Domain-Independent Planning (HSDIP 2024)

ICAPS'24 Workshop \
Banff, Canada \
June 2-3, 2024

## Aim and Scope of the Workshop

Heuristics and search algorithms are the two key components of heuristic search, one of the main approaches to many variations of domain-independent planning, including classical planning, temporal planning, planning under uncertainty and adversarial planning. This workshop seeks to understand the underlying principles of current heuristics and search methods, their limitations, ways for overcoming those limitations, as well as the synergy between heuristics and search.

The HSDIP workshop has always been welcoming of multidisciplinary work, for example, drawing inspiration from operations research (like row and column generation algorithms), convex optimization (like gradient optimization for hybrid planning), constraint programming, or satisfiability.

The workshop is meant to be an open and inclusive forum, and we encourage papers that report on work in progress or that do not fit the mold of a typical conference paper. Non-trivial negative results are welcome to the workshop, but we expect the authors to argue for the significance of the presented results.

## Topics of Interest

Examples of typical topics for submissions to this workshop are:
- automatic derivation of heuristic estimators for domain-independent planning
- formal results showing equivalence or dominance between heuristics
- novel heuristic methods dealing with planning with numeric variables and effects, partial observability and non-deterministic action effects
- heuristic estimators for domain-independent planning via procedures or  suitably defined encodings of declarative descriptions of planning tasks into Satisfiability or Optimisation
- novel search techniques for domain-independent planning that explicitly aim at exploiting effectively the properties of existing heuristics
- empirical observations of synergies between heuristics and search in domain-independent planning
- challenging domains for existing combinations of heuristics and search algorithms
- applications of machine learning in heuristic search, e.g., learning heuristics, adaptive search strategies, or heuristic selection
- interesting algorithmic optimizations for the calculation of a  heuristic or the execution of a search

## Important Dates

**Submission deadline:**  
28 March 2024 (UTC-12 timezone)

**Author feedback period:**
15-21 April 2024

**Notification:**  
April 26 2024

**Workshop:**  
June 2-3 2024

## Submission Details

The workshop will adopt a **two-track submission system** to better distinguish papers previously published at other venues (with formal proceedings) and unpublished work. Previously published papers can be submitted non-anonymously in the exact same format in which it appeared before. For unpublished work, please format submissions in AAAI style (see instructions in the Author Kit at https://www.aaai.org/Publications/Templates/AuthorKit24.zip) and keep them to  at most 9 pages including references. The track should be indicated at submission time. Authors considering submitting to the  workshop papers rejected from the main conference, please ensure you do your  utmost to address the comments given by ICAPS reviewers. Please do not submit papers that are already accepted for the main conference to the workshop.

Submissions will be made through CMT:

https://openreview.net/group?id=icaps-conference.org/ICAPS/2024/Workshop/HSDIP

The following conditions apply:

- Submissions will be double blind in general and single blind to the area chair.
- Accepted papers will be published as PDFs on the workshop webpage.
- Reviews and discussions between reviewers and organizers will be private.

Previously published papers are only assessed based on their relevance to the workshop by a member of the organizing committee and will not receive a full review. Unpublished work will be reviewed by a member of the organizing committee, and/or external reviewers selected by the organizing committee, according to the usual criteria such as relevance to the workshop, significance of the contribution, and technical quality. There will be an opportunity for a rebuttal where authors can clarify questions of the reviewers.

At least one author of each accepted paper must attend the workshop in order to present the paper.

### Policy on Previously Published Materials and Papers under Review

Submissions sent to other conferences are allowed. It is the responsibility of the authors to ensure that those venues allow for papers submitted to be already published in "informal" ways (e.g. on proceedings or websites without associated ISSN/ISBN). In particular, we welcome submissions sent to the IJCAI conference, and we aim to have the workshop submission deadline after SoCS notification.

## Workshop Committee

### Organizing Committee

**Imène Ait Abderrahim**, Khemis Miliana University, Algeria  
**Clemens Büchner**, University of Basel, Switzerland  
**Roy Fox**, University of California, Irvine, USA  
**Daniel Gnad**, Linköping University, Sweden  
**Sofia Lemons**, 2U, Maryland, USA

Contact: <hsdip@googlegroups.com>
