content/program/workshops/prl.md, before:

---
title: "PRL"
date: 2024-02-02T09:00:17+01:00
draft: false
---

# Bridging the Gap Between AI Planning and Reinforcement Learning (PRL)

ICAPS'24 Workshop \
Banff, Alberta, Canada  \
Date: TBA


## Aim and Scope of the Workshop

While AI Planning and Reinforcement Learning communities focus on similar
sequential decision-making problems, these communities remain somewhat unaware
of each other on specific problems, techniques, methodologies, and evaluations.

This workshop aims to encourage discussion and collaboration between researchers in the fields of AI planning and reinforcement learning. 
We aim to bridge the gap between the two communities, facilitate the discussion of differences and similarities in existing techniques, and encourage collaboration across the fields. 
We solicit interest from AI researchers that work in the
intersection of planning and reinforcement learning, in particular, those that focus on intelligent decision-making. This is the seventh edition of the [PRL workshop series](https://prl-theworkshop.github.io/) that started at [ICAPS 2020](https://icaps20subpages.icaps-conference.org/workshops/prl/).

## Topics of Interest

We invite submissions at the intersection of AI Planning and Reinforcement Learning. The topics of interest include, but are not limited to, the following

* Reinforcement learning (model-based, Bayesian, deep, hierarchical, etc.)
* Safe RL
* Monte Carlo planning
* Model representation and learning for planning
* Planning using approximated/uncertain (learned) models
* Learning search heuristics for planner guidance
* Theoretical aspects of planning and reinforcement learning
* Action policy analysis or certification
* Reinforcement learning and planning competition(s)
* Multi-agent planning and learning
* Applications of both reinforcement learning and planning 


## Important Dates

* Paper submission deadline: March 22th, AOE
* Paper acceptance notification: April 28th, AOE 



ICAPS will be **in-person** this year. Authors of accepted workshop papers are expected to physically attend the conference and present in person.

## Submission Details


We solicit workshop paper submissions relevant to the above call of the following types:

 * Long papers -- up to 8 pages + unlimited references / appendices
 * Short papers -- up to 4 pages + unlimited references / appendices
 * Extended abstracts -- up to 2 pages + unlimited references/appendices 
 
Please format submissions in AAAI style (see instructions in the [Author Kit](https://aaai.org/aaai-conference/submission-instructions/)). Authors submitting papers rejected from other conferences, please ensure you do your utmost to address the comments given by the reviewers. Please do not submit papers that are already accepted for the main ICAPS conference to the workshop.


Some accepted long papers will be invited for contributed talks. All accepted papers (long as well as short) and extended abstracts will be given a slot in the poster presentation session.  Extended abstracts are intended as brief summaries of already published papers,  preliminary work, position papers, or challenges that
might help bridge the gap.

As the main purpose of this workshop is to solicit discussion, the authors are
invited to use the appendix of their submissions for that purpose.


Paper submission website coming soon.


### Organizing Committee

* [Timo P. Gros](https://mosi.uni-saarland.de/people/timo/), German Research Center for Artificial Intelligence (DFKI), Saarbrücken, Germany
* [Steven James](https://sdjames.me/), University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa
* [Harsha Kokel](http://harshakokel.com), IBM Research, San Jose, USA
* [Simon Ståhlberg](https://rlplab.com/simon-stahlberg/), Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden
* [Marcel Steinmetz](https://marcel-steinmetz.org), LAAS-CNRS and University of Toulouse, Toulouse, France
* [Ayal Taitler](https://sites.google.com/view/ataitler/home), University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada


Please send your inquiries to prl.theworkshop@gmail.com

Commit message:

add link to submission site

content/program/workshops/prl.md, after:

---
title: "PRL"
date: 2024-02-02T09:00:17+01:00
draft: false
---

# [Bridging the Gap Between AI Planning and Reinforcement Learning (PRL)](https://prl-theworkshop.github.io/prl2024-icaps/)

ICAPS'24 Workshop \
Banff, Alberta, Canada  \
Date: TBA


## Aim and Scope of the Workshop

While AI Planning and Reinforcement Learning communities focus on similar
sequential decision-making problems, these communities remain somewhat unaware
of each other on specific problems, techniques, methodologies, and evaluations.

This workshop aims to encourage discussion and collaboration between researchers in the fields of AI planning and reinforcement learning. 
We aim to bridge the gap between the two communities, facilitate the discussion of differences and similarities in existing techniques, and encourage collaboration across the fields. 
We solicit interest from AI researchers that work in the
intersection of planning and reinforcement learning, in particular, those that focus on intelligent decision-making. This is the seventh edition of the [PRL workshop series](https://prl-theworkshop.github.io/) that started at [ICAPS 2020](https://icaps20subpages.icaps-conference.org/workshops/prl/).

## Topics of Interest

We invite submissions at the intersection of AI Planning and Reinforcement Learning. The topics of interest include, but are not limited to, the following

* Reinforcement learning (model-based, Bayesian, deep, hierarchical, etc.)
* Safe RL
* Monte Carlo planning
* Model representation and learning for planning
* Planning using approximated/uncertain (learned) models
* Learning search heuristics for planner guidance
* Theoretical aspects of planning and reinforcement learning
* Action policy analysis or certification
* Reinforcement learning and planning competition(s)
* Multi-agent planning and learning
* Applications of both reinforcement learning and planning 


## Important Dates

* Paper submission deadline: March 22th, AOE
* Paper acceptance notification: April 28th, AOE 



ICAPS will be **in-person** this year. Authors of accepted workshop papers are expected to physically attend the conference and present in person.

## Submission Details


We solicit workshop paper submissions relevant to the above call of the following types:

 * Long papers -- up to 8 pages + unlimited references / appendices
 * Short papers -- up to 4 pages + unlimited references / appendices
 * Extended abstracts -- up to 2 pages + unlimited references/appendices 
 
Please format submissions in AAAI style (see instructions in the [Author Kit](https://aaai.org/aaai-conference/submission-instructions/)). Authors submitting papers rejected from other conferences, please ensure you do your utmost to address the comments given by the reviewers. Please do not submit papers that are already accepted for the main ICAPS conference to the workshop.


Some accepted long papers will be invited for contributed talks. All accepted papers (long as well as short) and extended abstracts will be given a slot in the poster presentation session.  Extended abstracts are intended as brief summaries of already published papers,  preliminary work, position papers, or challenges that
might help bridge the gap.

As the main purpose of this workshop is to solicit discussion, the authors are
invited to use the appendix of their submissions for that purpose.

Paper submissions should be made through [OpenReview](https://openreview.net/group?id=PRL/2024/ICAPS). 


### Organizing Committee

* [Timo P. Gros](https://mosi.uni-saarland.de/people/timo/), German Research Center for Artificial Intelligence (DFKI), Saarbrücken, Germany
* [Steven James](https://sdjames.me/), University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa
* [Harsha Kokel](http://harshakokel.com), IBM Research, San Jose, USA
* [Simon Ståhlberg](https://rlplab.com/simon-stahlberg/), Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden
* [Marcel Steinmetz](https://marcel-steinmetz.org), LAAS-CNRS and University of Toulouse, Toulouse, France
* [Ayal Taitler](https://sites.google.com/view/ataitler/home), University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada


Please send your inquiries to prl.theworkshop@gmail.com
