static/img/summerschool/summerschool.md, before:

---
title: "Summer School"
draft: false
---


<!--  How to test webpage locally? Execute "hugo server" in the root folder -->

# The 12th ICAPS Summer School

The Summer School on Automated Planning and Scheduling in 2024 will be the first in-person summer school since 2018 – *after six long years!*


### When and Where?

The summer school will take place from *27 May 2024* to *31 May 2024* (5 full days), in Banff, the week before ICAPS. So if you plan to attend ICAPS, you could simply arrive one week earlier!


### What?

It's still one year until it takes place, to the exact program isn't final yet. So far, it's planned that the summer school consists of two lectures in the morning and hands-on lab sessions in the afternoon.

The lectures and lab sessions evolve around a common theme — task and motion planning (TMP) — gradually moving from theory to practice using TMP, which is a very rich topic. In other words, the lab sessions are designed to demonstrate ideas and theories discussed in the lectures. More concretely, the programme includes lectures presented by researchers from the ICAPS community in the morning, followed by hands-on laboratory activities taking examples from robotics-related applications (e.g. single- and multi-robot systems) that build upon material presented in the lectures.


### Who can join? How and when to apply?

As of now, we have 40 (in-person) spots for participants. We hope that we can accommodate a higher number of participants, but it's too early to confirm this. Our 40 spots are however already confirmed. The summer school is primarily intended for PhD students, but in principle post-docs are also eligible. If we have more applicants than spots (which at the moment seems to be the case) precedence will be given to PhD students.

Applications will likely open at some point in 2024. As we expect that many of those interested in the summer school will only be able to join if they have also a paper at the main conference, we plan to open applications shortly after the ICAPS notifications are sent, and try to have a short turnaround time for sending the notifications. We are asking in advance for your understanding in case you are not selected, because available spots are limited.


### Costs and Sponsorships

It is still too early to provide concrete numbers as we are still in the process of acquiring sponsors. We try to keep the registration fee (which will include accommodation, breakfast, coffee breaks, lunch, and one dinner) as low as possible, and will also offer free registration to very low number of selected participants.


### Organizing Team

The organizing team, sorted alphabetically by last name, consists of:

- Pascal Bercher from the Australian National University, Australia -- pascal.bercher at anu.edu.au, [webpage](https://comp.anu.edu.au/people/pascal-bercher/)
- Sarah Keren from Technion, Israel -- sarahk at technion.ac.il, [webpage](https://sarahkeren.wixsite.com/sarahkeren-academics)
- Jane Jean Kiam from University of the Bundeswehr Munich, Germany -- jane.kiam at unibw.de [webpage](https://www.unibw.de/home-en/appointment-of-professors/prof-jane-jean-kiam)


## Sponsors

Here we will list all our sponsors that help(ed) making the summer school possible.


<!--  Additional information that we plan to add in the future:

- Links to past summer schools, including the info whether tutorial recordings exist.
- ???

-->

Commit message:

addressed Sara B.'s critique about summer school content

static/img/summerschool/summerschool.md, after:

---
title: "Summer School"
draft: false
---


<!--  How to test webpage locally? Execute "hugo server" in the root folder -->

# The 12th ICAPS Summer School

The Summer School on Automated Planning and Scheduling in 2024 will be the first in-person summer school since 2018 – *after six long years!*


### When and Where?

The summer school will take place from *27 May 2024* to *31 May 2024* (5 full days), in Banff, the week before ICAPS. So if you plan to attend ICAPS, you could simply arrive one week earlier!


### What?

It's still one year until it takes place, to the exact program isn't final yet. So far, it's planned that the summer school consists of two lectures in the morning and hands-on lab sessions in the afternoon.

The summer school provides a comprehensive and incremental overview of frameworks for planning and sequential decision-making (classical planning, stochastic planning, partial observability, RL, etc.) while using integrated task and motion planning (TMP) as the underlying 'running example' or storyline. The lab sessions are designed to demonstrate ideas and theories discussed in the lectures. More concretely, the programme includes lectures presented by researchers from the ICAPS community in the morning, followed by hands-on laboratory activities taking examples from robotics-related applications (e.g. single- and multi-robot systems) that build upon material presented in the lectures.


### Who can join? How and when to apply?

As of now, we have 40 (in-person) spots for participants. We hope that we can accommodate a higher number of participants, but it's too early to confirm this. Our 40 spots are however already confirmed. The summer school is primarily intended for PhD students, but in principle post-docs are also eligible. If we have more applicants than spots (which at the moment seems to be the case) precedence will be given to PhD students.

Applications will likely open at some point in 2024. As we expect that many of those interested in the summer school will only be able to join if they have also a paper at the main conference, we plan to open applications shortly after the ICAPS notifications are sent, and try to have a short turnaround time for sending the notifications. We are asking in advance for your understanding in case you are not selected, because available spots are limited.


### Costs and Sponsorships

It is still too early to provide concrete numbers as we are still in the process of acquiring sponsors. We try to keep the registration fee (which will include accommodation, breakfast, coffee breaks, lunch, and one dinner) as low as possible, and will also offer free registration to very low number of selected participants.


### Organizing Team

The organizing team, sorted alphabetically by last name, consists of:

- Pascal Bercher from the Australian National University, Australia -- pascal.bercher at anu.edu.au, [webpage](https://comp.anu.edu.au/people/pascal-bercher/)
- Sarah Keren from Technion, Israel -- sarahk at technion.ac.il, [webpage](https://sarahkeren.wixsite.com/sarahkeren-academics)
- Jane Jean Kiam from University of the Bundeswehr Munich, Germany -- jane.kiam at unibw.de [webpage](https://www.unibw.de/home-en/appointment-of-professors/prof-jane-jean-kiam)


## Sponsors

Here we will list all our sponsors that help(ed) making the summer school possible.


<!--  Additional information that we plan to add in the future:

- Links to past summer schools, including the info whether tutorial recordings exist.
- ???

-->
