content/attending/travel.md, before:

---
title: "Travel Information"
date: 2024-03-04T17:53:41+01:00
draft: false
---

# Travel Information

The town of Banff is west of Calgary, Alberta. Most attendees will fly into Calgary International Airport (YYC) and drive or take a bus to Banff.

Note: Banff is in Banff National Park. The Park has an entry fee. See below.

## Bus from YYC to Banff
A two-hour drive away, the Calgary International Airport (YYC) is the closest airport to Banff. The Calgary International Airport maintains a website with up-to-date information on transportation and accommodation information. Visit [https://yyc.com/](https://yyc.com/).

The Banff Airporter is the official airport shuttle provider of Banff Centre. The trip from YYC to the Banff Centre is approximately two hours (the bus drops you off at the Banff Centre’s hotel front desk). Phone **403.762.3330** or **1.888.449.2901** (toll-free within North America) or visit [https://banffairporter.com/](https://banffairporter.com/).

Brewster Travel Canada offers daily motor coach shuttles from YYC to Banff. Reservations are required. Visit [https://www.banffjaspercollection.com/brewster-express/](https://www.banffjaspercollection.com/brewster-express/). The bus stops at the Banff bus station, a five-minute drive or 30 minute walk to the Banff Centre. Call Taxi Taxi at **403.762.0000**.


## Drive from YYC to Banff

<figure>
<div style="text-align:center">
  <img
  src="/img/travel/route_banff.png"
  alt="">
  <figcaption></figcaption>
  </div>
</figure>

For those attending the Symposium on Combinatorial Search (SOCS) this year, note the location of Kananaskis Village on the map.
There are numerous places to park at the Banff Centre. Parking is free.

## Banff National Park Entry Fee
[From [https://parks.canada.ca/pn-np/ab/banff/visit/tarifs-fees#admission](https://parks.canada.ca/pn-np/ab/banff/visit/tarifs-fees#admission), February 25]

A fee is charged for admission to Banff National Park. The revenues are used to support visitor services and facilities. The fee per day (in Canadian dollars):

Adult (age 18 to 64): $11

Senior (age 65+): $9.50

Youth (age 17 and under): free

Family/group (up to seven people arriving in a single vehicle): $22

# Getting Around in Banff
Uber and Lyft are not available in Banff. Call Taxi Taxi at **403.762.0000**.

Commit message:

Adding BANFF NATIONAL PARK and remove general info menu

content/attending/travel.md, after:

---
title: "Travel Information"
date: 2024-03-04T17:53:41+01:00
draft: false
---

# Travel Information

The town of Banff is west of Calgary, Alberta. Most attendees will fly into Calgary International Airport (YYC) and drive or take a bus to Banff.

Note: Banff is in Banff National Park. The Park has an entry fee. See below.

## Bus from YYC to Banff
A two-hour drive away, the Calgary International Airport (YYC) is the closest airport to Banff. The Calgary International Airport maintains a website with up-to-date information on transportation and accommodation information. Visit [https://yyc.com/](https://yyc.com/).

The Banff Airporter is the official airport shuttle provider of Banff Centre. The trip from YYC to the Banff Centre is approximately two hours (the bus drops you off at the Banff Centre’s hotel front desk). Phone **403.762.3330** or **1.888.449.2901** (toll-free within North America) or visit [https://banffairporter.com/](https://banffairporter.com/).

Brewster Travel Canada offers daily motor coach shuttles from YYC to Banff. Reservations are required. Visit [https://www.banffjaspercollection.com/brewster-express/](https://www.banffjaspercollection.com/brewster-express/). The bus stops at the Banff bus station, a five-minute drive or 30 minute walk to the Banff Centre. Call Taxi Taxi at **403.762.0000**.


## Drive from YYC to Banff

<figure>
<div style="text-align:center">
  <img
  src="/img/travel/route_banff.png"
  alt="">
  <figcaption></figcaption>
  </div>
</figure>

For those attending the Symposium on Combinatorial Search (SOCS) this year, note the location of Kananaskis Village on the map.
There are numerous places to park at the Banff Centre. Parking is free.

## Banff National Park Entry Fee
[From [https://parks.canada.ca/pn-np/ab/banff/visit/tarifs-fees#admission](https://parks.canada.ca/pn-np/ab/banff/visit/tarifs-fees#admission), February 25]

A fee is charged for admission to Banff National Park. The revenues are used to support visitor services and facilities. The fee per day (in Canadian dollars):

Adult (age 18 to 64): $11

Senior (age 65+): $9.50

Youth (age 17 and under): free

Family/group (up to seven people arriving in a single vehicle): $22

## Getting Around in Banff
Uber and Lyft are not available in Banff. Call Taxi Taxi at **403.762.0000**.


# BANFF NATIONAL PARK

## Visitor Information

[Banff Lake Louise Tourism](https://www.banfflakelouise.com/)

[Travel Alberta](https://www.travelalberta.com/)

## Wildlife
As the Banff Centre and the town of Banff are in Banff National Park, various types of wildlife are often observed. Sightings range from different bird species to the most frequently encountered large mammals: elk, mountain goats, bears, and mountain lions.

Keep in mind that the wildlife you may encounter is just that — wild! Please ensure that you respect the animals’ spaces and habitats while in the park. That perfect picture can sometimes lead to a compromising situation for both the subject and the photographer. For your safety and theirs, please treat them with respect and keep your distance. Please do not feed any of the animals, including the squirrels, as they are protected by law.

**Please do not feed any animals, this can result in animals becoming habituated to humans and could lead to them being put down.**

Elk can be fast and dangerous, especially during spring calving (May 15-July 1). If you encounter any elk, keep your distance. You must always stay at least three bus lengths away from elk. Do not use headphones on trails. It is always best to travel in groups and to be always aware of your surroundings. **If you see wildlife on the Banff Centre campus, please contact Security Services via the main switchboard by dialling '0' or calling 1.403.760.0098**.

It is your responsibility to educate yourself on the topic of wildlife and how to prepare for wildlife encounters.
Mountains can be dangerous. If you are planning an excursion, contact the Parks Canada Information Centre at **403.762.1550** for up-to-date weather and avalanche information, reports on trail conditions, and wildlife activity. Visit [https://parks.canada.ca/pn-np/ab/banff](https://parks.canada.ca/pn-np/ab/banff) for more information.
