content/program/tutorials/2024_t01_aiopt_scheduling.md, before:

---
title: "Tutorial 01 - AI and Optimization for Scheduling"
date: 2024-04-16
draft: false
---

# Abstract

Scheduling problems arise in various areas, including business, engineering, healthcare, and others. In this tutorial, 
we will first present several scheduling problems and case studies from various application domains, such as project 
scheduling, production planning and scheduling, employee scheduling, and timetabling. We will then provide an overview 
of different methods for solving such problems. The topics covered will include solver-independent modeling, constraint 
programming, metaheuristic methods, and hybrid techniques. In the second part of the tutorial, we will discuss methods 
that use machine learning techniques for automatic algorithm selection and heuristic algorithm design. We will 
demonstrate the application of these techniques in several real-world domains.

# Official Website and Auxiliary Materials

- [Tutorial Website](xxxx)

# About the Presenters

**Nysret Musliu** is an Associate Professor and the Head of the Christian Doppler Laboratory for AI and Optimization 
for Planning and Scheduling at TU Wien. His research focuses on problem solving and search in artificial intelligence, 
scheduling and timetabling, application of machine learning in optimization, and engineering of intelligent systems. 
He was Conference Chair of CPAIOR 2021, Conference/PC Co-Chair of CPAIOR 2020 and Conference/PC Co-Chair of PATAT 2018, 
and he is a steering committee member of PATAT conference series. He has lead several research projects funded by FWF, 
Christian Doppler Research Association, FFG, and several companies.

**Lucas Kletzander** is a postdoctoral researcher in the research unit Databases and AI, and Christian Doppler Laboratory 
for AI and Optimization for Planning and Scheduling, TU Wien. He did his PhD on automated solution methods for personnel 
scheduling problems. Currently, he works on complex real-life scheduling problems using exact, heuristic and hybrid 
methods and automated algorithm selection and configuration.

**Florian Mischek** is a postdoctoral researcher in the Christian Doppler Laboratory for AI and Optimization for Planning 
and Scheduling, research unit Databases and AI, TU Wien. He did his PhD on advanced automated project scheduling 
approaches for industrial test laboratories. Currently, he is working on multi-objective and explainable scheduling, as 
well as hyper-heuristics.

Commit message:

Tutorial pages
 - Changed structure following @zlatanajanovic suggestion

content/program/tutorials/2024_t01_aiopt_scheduling.md, after:

---
title: "Tutorial 01 - AI and Optimization for Scheduling"
date: 2024-04-16
draft: false
---
# Tutorial 01 - AI and Optimization for Scheduling

## Abstract

Scheduling problems arise in various areas, including business, engineering, healthcare, and others. In this tutorial, 
we will first present several scheduling problems and case studies from various application domains, such as project 
scheduling, production planning and scheduling, employee scheduling, and timetabling. We will then provide an overview 
of different methods for solving such problems. The topics covered will include solver-independent modeling, constraint 
programming, metaheuristic methods, and hybrid techniques. In the second part of the tutorial, we will discuss methods 
that use machine learning techniques for automatic algorithm selection and heuristic algorithm design. We will 
demonstrate the application of these techniques in several real-world domains.

# Official Website and Auxiliary Materials

- [Tutorial Website](xxxx)

## About the Presenters

**Nysret Musliu** is an Associate Professor and the Head of the Christian Doppler Laboratory for AI and Optimization 
for Planning and Scheduling at TU Wien. His research focuses on problem solving and search in artificial intelligence, 
scheduling and timetabling, application of machine learning in optimization, and engineering of intelligent systems. 
He was Conference Chair of CPAIOR 2021, Conference/PC Co-Chair of CPAIOR 2020 and Conference/PC Co-Chair of PATAT 2018, 
and he is a steering committee member of PATAT conference series. He has lead several research projects funded by FWF, 
Christian Doppler Research Association, FFG, and several companies.

**Lucas Kletzander** is a postdoctoral researcher in the research unit Databases and AI, and Christian Doppler Laboratory 
for AI and Optimization for Planning and Scheduling, TU Wien. He did his PhD on automated solution methods for personnel 
scheduling problems. Currently, he works on complex real-life scheduling problems using exact, heuristic and hybrid 
methods and automated algorithm selection and configuration.

**Florian Mischek** is a postdoctoral researcher in the Christian Doppler Laboratory for AI and Optimization for Planning 
and Scheduling, research unit Databases and AI, TU Wien. He did his PhD on advanced automated project scheduling 
approaches for industrial test laboratories. Currently, he is working on multi-objective and explainable scheduling, as 
well as hyper-heuristics.
